# Module 1: Architectures for Big Data Engineering with Azure

# Lab: Designing a big data architecture

### Scenario
You have been asked to design a traffic surveillance system that monitors vehicles travelling on public roads.

The system is based on fixed roadside traffic cameras with automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) software built in. These cameras are positioned at strategic junctions and locations on the road network, and capture information about each vehicle that passes.

Information from the ANPR cameras needs to be passed to the Police Central Communications Center (PCCC). Software at the PCCC determines whether vehicles are speeding, and can trigger functionality that raises fines or summonses (depending on how much over the speed limit a vehicle is travelling). The PCCC can also detect whether a vehicle is reported as stolen, and alert a nearby police patrol car to try and intercept the vehicle.

Police patrol cars are equipped with devices that communicate with the PCCC, transmitting their current location and speed. These devices can also receive alerts from the PCCC concerning the location of nearby suspect and stolen vehicles.

### Objectives
After completing this lab, you will be able to:
- Captures a stream of vehicle details from each ANPR camera and sends it to the PCCC for processing.
- Tracks the locations of police patrol cars, and communicates real-time information about suspect vehicles to these patrol cars.
- Automates processing for generated speeding fines and summonses.
- Generates real-time reports and other statistical information about vehicle speeds.
- Stores all captured information for future analysis.

### Lab Setup
Estimated time: 60 minutes
Virtual machine: **20776A-LON-DEV**
User name: **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin**
Password: **Pa55w.rd**

>**Note:** This is a paper-based lab. You do not require access to Azure.

## Exercise 1: Capturing vehicle data and alerting patrol cars

### Scenario
The ANPR cameras capture the speed, location, and registration number for each vehicle that passes. You want to use this data to:
- Detect whether the vehicle is speeding and/or stolen.
- Alert patrol cars about any speeding/stolen vehicles in their vicinity.
- Generate real-time reports about the speeds captured by each camera (such as the average speed during the last 30 seconds).
- Detect whether a traffic incident has occurred that could require a patrol car to attend.

You need to determine the most appropriate technologies to implement these features. The solution must be scalable to handle data from many hundreds of cameras, and be capable of processing data very efficiently to enable the timely interception of stolen vehicles. It must also be able to detect anomalies, such as the same car appearing to be in more than one place simultaneously; a car might be fitted with false registration plates, for example.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Handling incoming speed camera data
2. Communicating between the PCCC and the patrol cars
3. Incorporating supplementary data

#### Task 1: Handling incoming speed camera data
Answer the following questions to help determine the most appropriate technologies for capturing and processing the data recorded by the speed cameras:
1.  How many speed cameras are there likely to be—a few, tens, hundreds, thousands?
2.  All cameras send the following data:
    - CameraID,
    - VehicleRegistration,
    - Speed,
    - SpeedLimit,
    - LocationLatitude,
    - LocationLongitude,
    - Time
    How can you arrange for the data for this number of cameras to be sent to the PCCC?
1.  What technology can the PCCC use to process this data?
2.  How can the PCCC generate real-time reports based on the data?
3.  How can the PCCC detect whether a traffic incident (such as a collision) has occurred using the speed camera data?
4.  How might the PCCC detect whether a vehicle is fitted with false registration plates?
5.  What should the PCCC do with the data it has received when it has been processed?

#### Task 2: Communicating between the PCCC and the patrol cars
Each patrol car captures and reports its current location and speed by using a device that is connected to an IoT hub.
1.  What technology can the PCCC use to capture patrol car information sent to an IoT hub?
2.  How can the PCCC send alerts about speeding/stolen vehicles back to patrol cars?

#### Task 3: Incorporating supplementary data
The speed cameras simply pass data concerning the observed speeds of vehicles back to the PCCC.
1.  What additional information might be needed to determine whether a vehicle is stolen?
2.  How dynamic is this information?
3.  Where should this information be held?

>**Result**: At the end of this exercise, you will have selected the technologies that support the stream processing requirements listed in the scenario.

## Exercise 2: Performing batch processing

### Scenario
In addition to the dynamic stream processing performed by the PCCC, several batch processes are required, including:
- Generating speeding fines and summonses.
- Creating reports that show how traffic flows vary over time at each speed camera.
- Performing general analyses, such as the likelihood of speeding vehicles also being recorded as stolen.

You need to determine the most appropriate technologies to implement these features.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Generating fines and summonses
2. Reporting and analyzing data in batch

#### Task 1: Generating fines and summonses
Consider the following questions to help determine the most appropriate technologies for performing the batch processing required by the PCCC:
1.  Apart from the data captured by the speed cameras, what additional information is required to generate speeding fines and summonses?
2.  Which Azure technology is most suited to performing analytical batch processing?
3.  If you suspect that you might need to perform additional analytics over the speed camera data in the future, how might you restructure this data to support ad-hoc processing by using Data Lake Analytics?

#### Task 2: Reporting and analyzing data in batch
1.  How can you create reports that analyze data over time?
2.  How can you present the reports created by using Data Lake Analytics?
3.  How can you incorporate existing analytics libraries and code written in other languages into a Data Lake Analytics job?

>**Result**: At the end of this exercise, you will have selected the technologies that support the batch processing requirements listed in the scenario.

## Exercise 3: Storing long-term data and performing analytical processing

### Scenario
The data captured and generated by the various streaming and batch processes might be required for detailed analytical processing in the future. It might also be necessary to combine this data with information retrieved from other sources.

You have been asked how to store and structure this information.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Determining long-term data storage and processing requirements
2. Migrating data to long-term analytical storage

#### Task 1: Determining long-term data storage and processing requirements
Consider the following questions to help determine the most appropriate technologies for handling the long-term storage requirements of the PCCC. The data might be required to support ad-hoc analytical processing in the future:
1.  What are the possible sources of data?
2.  How much data is there likely to be?
3.  What form of analytical processing is likely to be required?
4.  How many processing resources are you likely to require to analyze this volume of data?

#### Task 2: Migrating data to long-term analytical storage
1.  Where could you store the data in the long term, to support ad-hoc analytical processing?
2.  How can you integrate or migrate data into long-term analytical data storage?

>**Result**: At the end of this exercise, you will have selected the technologies that support the data storage and detailed analytical processing requirements of the system.

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.