# Module 9: Automating Data Flow with Azure Data Factory

# Lab: Automating the Data Flow with Azure Data Factory

## Exercise 1: Use Data Factory to back up data from an Azure Data Lake Store to a second ADLS store

#### Task 1: Verify the data in the original ADLS account
1.  In the Azure portal, click **All resources**, click **adls&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**, and then click **Data Explorer**.
2.  On the **adls&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, double-click the **Stolen** folder and verify that all the files and folders you imported in Lab07 are present.

#### Task 2: Create a second backup ADLS account
1.  In the Azure portal, click **+ New**, click **Storage**, and then click **Data Lake Store**.
2.  On the **New Data Lake Store** blade, in the **Name** box, type **adlsbackup&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**.
3.  Under **Resource group**, click **Use existing**, and then click **CamerasRG**.
4.  In the **Location** list, select the same location as you used for your original Data Lake Store.
5.  Leave all other settings at their defaults, and click **Create**.
6.  Wait until the storage has deployed before continuing with the lab.

#### Task 3: Create new Data Factory
1.  In the Azure portal, click **+ New**, click **Data + Analytics**, and then click **Data Factory**.
2.  On the **New data factory** blade, in the **Name** box, type **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**.
3.  Under **Resource group**, click **Use existing**, and then click **CamerasRG**.
4.  In the **Version** list, click **V1**.
5.  In the **Location** list, from the list of currently available Data Factory regions, select the same location as you used for your Data Lake Stores, or if this is not available, select your nearest location.
6.  Click **Create**.
7.  Wait until the Data Factory has deployed before continuing with the exercise.

#### Task 4: Create a Service Principal
1.  In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory**.
2.  On the **Azure Active Directory** blade, under **MANAGE**, click **App registrations**, and then click **New application registration**.
3.  On the **Create** blade, enter the following details, and then click **Create**:
    - **Name**: ADLStoDataFactory
    - **Application type**: Web app/ API
    - **Sign-on URL**: https://ADLStoDataFactory/Dummy
> Note that the actual URL entered on this blade is immaterial as you do not actually build or deploy an app at this location; it is merely acting as an identifier in this example.
4.  Click the **ADLStoDataFactory** application, next to **Application ID**, click the **Click to copy** button.
5.  On the Start menu, type Notepad, and then press Enter.
6.  In Notepad, type **Application ID**, and then press Enter.
7.  On the **Edit** menu, click **Paste**, to store the copied Application ID.
8.  In Notepad, on the **File** menu, click **Save**, and save the file as **Auth\_details.txt** in your **Documents** folder.
9.  Switch to the Azure portal.
10. On the **Settings** blade, under **API ACCESS**, click **Keys**.
11. On the **Keys** blade, enter the following information, and then click **Save**:
    - **Key description**: Key1
    - **Duration**: In 1 year
12. Select the **VALUE** for **Key1**, then right-click, and click **Copy**.
13. Switch to Notepad.
14. Press Ctrl+End, press Enter twice, type **Key1**, press Enter, and then press Ctrl+V to store the API key.
15. Switch to the Azure portal.
16. Close the **Keys**, **Settings**, and **ADLStoDataFactory** blades.
17. On the **Azure Active Directory** blade, under **MANAGE**, click **Properties**.
18. On the **Properties** blade, next to **Directory ID**, click the **Click to copy** button.
19. Switch to Notepad.
20. Press Ctrl+End, press Enter twice, type **Directory ID**, press Enter, and then press Ctrl+V to store the Directory ID.
21. On the **File** menu, click **Save**.

#### Task 5: Assign copy data permissions to the Service Principal
1.  Switch to the Azure portal.
2.  Click **All resources**, click **adls&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**, and then click **Data Explorer**.
3.  In Data Explorer, ensure the root folder (adls&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;) is open, and then click **Access**.
4.  On the **Access** blade, click **Add**.
5.  On the **Select User or Group** blade, click **ADLStoDataFactory**, and then click **Select**.
6.  On the **Select Permissions** blade, select the **Read**, **Write**, and **Execute** check boxes.
7.  Under **Add to**, click **This folder and all children**.
8.  Under **Add as**, click **An access permission entry and a default permission entry**, and then click **Ok**.
> **IMPORTANT**. Wait while permissions are assigned to **ADLStoDataFactory**; notice the assignments to each file and folder is displayed in the **Assigning permissions to** box. Do not continue with the exercise until you see the notification that the permissions assignment has successfully completed (this might take several minutes), and the blue assigning graphic becomes a green check mark.
9.  Close the **Access** blade.
10. Click **All resources**, click **adlsbackup&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**, and then click **Data Explorer**.
11. In Azure Data Lake Explorer, click **Access**.
12. On the **Access** blade, click **Add**.
13. On the **Select User or Group** blade, click **ADLStoDataFactory**, and then click **Select**.
14. On the **Select Permissions** blade, select the **Read**, **Write**, and **Execute** check boxes.
15. Under **Add to**, click **This folder and all children**.
16. Under **Add as**, click **An access permission entry and a default permission entry**, and then click **Ok**.
> Note that, because there is no data in this Lake Store, the permissions assignment is very quick.
17. Close the **Access** blade.
18. In Azure Data Lake Explorer, click **New Folder**.
19. In the **Create New Folder** box, type **Stolen**, and then click **OK**.

#### Task 6: Use Copy Wizard to back up data from ADLS1 to ADLS2
1.  In the Azure portal, click **All resources**, and then click **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**.
2.  If the **Settings** blade appears, close it.
3.  On the **Data Factory** blade, in the **Actions** section, click **Copy data (PREVIEW)**; note that this opens a new tab for Copy Data.
4.  On the **Copy Data** page, in the **Properties** section, in the **Task name** box, type **Traffic DF Copy Pipeline**.
5.  In the **Start date time (UTC)** box, click on the date, and set it to be five days before today, and then click **Done**.
6.  In the **End date time (UTC)** box, click on the date, and then click **Now** to set the date to be today, and then click **Done**.
7.  On the **Copy Data** page, click **Next**.
8.  On the **Source data store** page, click **Azure Data Lake Store**, and then click **Next**.
9.  On the **Specify Data Lake Store connection** page, in the **Connection name** box, type **Input Data Lake Store**.
10. In the **Azure subscription** box, select your Azure Pass subscription.
11. In the **Data Lake store account name** box, click **adls&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**.
12. In the **Authentication type** box, click **Service Principal**.
13. In the **Tenant** box, ensure that the value matches the **Directory ID** that you saved in **Auth\_details.txt**.
14. In the **Service principal id** box, paste the **Application ID** value that you saved in **Auth\_details.txt**.
15. In the **Service principal key** box, paste the **API key** (Key1) value that you saved in **Auth\_details.txt**, and then click **Next**.
16. On the **Choose the input file or folder** page, click **Stolen**, and then click **Choose**.
17. Select the **Copy files recursively**, and **Binary copy** check boxes, and then click **Next**.
18. On the **Destination** **data store** page, click **Azure Data Lake Store**, and then click **Next**.
19. On the **Specify Data Lake Store connection** page, in the **Connection name** box, type **Output Data Lake Store**.
20. In the **Azure subscription** box, select your Azure Pass subscription.
21. In the **Data Lake store account name** box, click **adlsbackup&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**.
22. In the **Authentication type** box, click **Service Principal**.
23. In the **Tenant** box, ensure that the value matches the **Directory ID** that you saved in **Auth\_details.txt**.
24. In the **Service principal id** box, paste the **Application ID** value that you saved in **Auth\_details.txt**.
25. In the **Service principal key** box, paste the **API key** (Key1) value that you saved in **Auth\_details.txt**, and then click **Next**.
26. In the **Choose the output file or folder** page, click **Browse**, click **Stolen**, click **Choose**, and then click **Next**.
27. On the **Settings** page, click **Next**.
28. On the **Summary** page, click **Next**.
29. On the **Deployment** page, note the verification steps.
30. When the deployment has completed, click **Click here to monitor copy pipeline**.
31. Point out the datasets and pipeline in the diagram; there should be a Copy animation showing in the pipeline as the pipeline is active.
32. In the **ACTIVITY WINDOWS** list, click the most recent activity (this might still be showing as **In progress**), to show more details in the right-hand Activity Window Explorer pane; if you do not see this, click **Refresh**.
33. Scroll down through the details, and if the job has completed, note the data read and written, row count, copy duration, and billed duration.
34. In the **ACTIVITY WINDOWS** list, point out that there is an activity for each day in the period between your specified start and end times.
> Note that you will check the results of this job in a later exercise, after it has finished processing.

>**Result**: At the end of this exercise, you will have:
1.  Verified the data in the original ADLS account.
2.  Created a second ADLS account to act as the backup location.
3.  Created a new Data Factory.
4.  Created a service principal to enable Data Lake Store authorization in a Data Factory pipeline.
5.  Assigned permissions to the Service Principal to enable data copying.
6.  Used the Data Factory Copy Wizard to backup data from one ADLS account to another.

## Exercise 2: Transform uploaded data by running a U-SQL script in an ADLA linked service

#### Task 1: Prepare the environment
1.  In the Azure portal, click **All resources**, and then click **speeddata&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**.
2.  On the **speeddata&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, under **BLOB SERVICE**, click **Containers**, and then click **+ Container**.
3.  In the **New container** dialog box, in the **Name** box, type **cameratestdata**, and then click **OK**.
4.  On the **speeddata&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt; - Containers** blade, under **SETTINGS**, click **Access keys**.
5.  Next to **key1**, click the **Click to copy** button to copy the key to the clipboard.
6.  Switch to Notepad.
7.  Press Ctrl+End, press Enter twice, type **Storage access key**, press Enter, and then press Ctrl+V to store the access key.
8.  On the **File** menu, click **Save**.
9.  Right-click the Start button, and then click **Command Prompt (Admin)**.
10. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
11. At the command prompt, type the following commands (replacing **&lt;storage account name&gt;** with **speeddata&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**, and replacing **&lt;access key&gt;** with the **Storage access key** value that you saved in **Auth\_details.txt**, and then press Enter:

    ```
    azcopy /Source:"E:\Labfiles\Lab09\Exercise2" /Pattern:"CameraData.csv" /Dest:https://<storage account name>.blob.core.windows.net/cameratestdata /DestKey:<access key> /S

    azcopy /Source:"E:\Labfiles\Lab09\Exercise2" /Pattern:"CameraDataProcessing.txt" /Dest:https://<storage account name>.blob.core.windows.net/scripts /DestKey:<access key> /S
    ```
> The above commands can be copied from **E:\\LabFiles\\Lab09\\Exercise2\\AZCopyCmd.txt**.

12. When the copies have completed, at the command prompt, type the following command, replacing **&lt;storage account name&gt;** with **speeddata&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**, replacing **&lt;data lake store&gt;** with **adls&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**, and replacing **&lt;access key&gt;** with the **Storage access key** value that you saved in **Auth\_details.txt**, and then press Enter:

    ```
    adlcopy /source https://<storage account name>.blob.core.windows.net/cameratestdata/ /dest adl://<data lake store>.azuredatalakestore.net/CameraTestData/ /sourcekey <access key>
    ```
> You copy the preceding command can from: **E:\\LabFiles\\Lab09\\Exercise2\\AdlCopyCmd.txt**.

#### Task 2: Add the Service Principal as Contributor to the ADLA account
1.  Switch to the Azure portal.
2.  Click **All resources**, and click **speedsdla&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**.
3.  On the **speedsdla&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, click **Access control (IAM)**.
4.  On the **speedsdla&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt; - Access control (IAM)** blade, click **Add**.
5.  On the **Add permissions** blade, in the **Role** list, click **Contributor**.
6.  In the **Select** box, type **ADLS**, click **ADLStoDataFactory**, and then click **Save**.

#### Task 3: Create an Azure Data Lake Analytics linked service
1.  In the Azure portal, click **All resources**, and then click **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**.
2.  If the **Settings** blade appears, close it.
3.  On the **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, in the **Actions** section, click **Author and deploy**.
4.  On the **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, click **More**, click **New compute**, and then click **Azure Data Lake Analytics**.
5.  In the JSON editor, edit **accountName**, replacing the existing value with **speedsdla&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**.
6.  Delete the following lines:

    ```
    "authorization": "<Authorization code is automatically retrieved after clicking 'Authorize' and completing the OAuth login>",

    "subscriptionId": "<[Optional] Data Lake Analytics account subscription ID (if different from Data Factory account)>",

    "resourceGroupName": "<[Optional] Data Lake Analytics account resource group name (if different from Data Factory account)>",

    "sessionId": "<OAuth session id from OAuth authorization session. Each session id is unique and may only be used once>"
    ```
7.  Add the following lines under the **accountName**, replace **&lt;service principal id&gt;** with the **Application ID** value, replace **&lt;service principal key&gt;** with the **API key** (Key1) value, and replace **&lt;tenant id&gt;** with the **Directory ID** that you saved in **Auth\_details.txt** (these can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab09\\Exercise2\\JsonCmd1.txt**):

    ```
    "dataLakeAnalyticsUri": "azuredatalakeanalytics.net",

    "servicePrincipalId": "<service principal id>",

    "servicePrincipalKey": "<service principal key>",

    "tenant": "<tenant id>"
    ```
8.  Click **Deploy**.
9.  On the **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, expand **Linked services**, and then click **AzureDataLakeAnalyticsLinkedService**.
> Note that the JSON-formatted information is the configuration detail for the connection to your Azure Data Lake Analytics, and that the key has now been obfuscated with \*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*.

#### Task 4: Create a Data Lake Store linked service for input and output datasets
1.  On the **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, click **New data store**, and then click **Azure Data Lake Store**.
2.  In the JSON editor, edit the following properties:
    - **dataLakeStoreUri**: replace the existing value with **https://adls&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;.azuredatalakestore.net/webhdfs/v1** (the URI can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab09\\Exercise2\\JsonCmd2.txt**)
    - **accountName**: replace the existing value with **adls&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**
    - **servicePrincipalId**: replace the existing value with the **Application ID** value that you saved in **Auth\_details.txt**
    - **servicePrincipalKey**: replace the existing value with the **API key** (Key1) value that you saved in **Auth\_details.txt**
3.  Delete the following lines:

    ```
    "resourceGroupName": "<[Optional] Data Lake Store account resource group name (if different from Data Factory account)>",

    "subscriptionId": "<[Optional] Data Lake Store account subscription ID (if different from Data Factory account)>"
    ```
4.  Delete the comma (,) at the end of the **tenant** line, and then click **Deploy**.

#### Task 5: Create an Azure Storage Blob linked service for the U-SQL script
1.  On the **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, click **New data store**, and then click **Azure Storage**.
2.  In the JSON editor, edit the **connectionString**, replacing **&lt;accountname&gt;** with **speeddata&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**, and replacing **&lt;accountkey&gt;** with the **Storage access key** value that you saved in **Auth\_details.txt**.
3.  Click **Deploy**.

#### Task 6: Create Data Lake Store input and output datasets
1.  On the **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, click **More**, click **New dataset**, and then click **Azure Data Lake Store**.
2.  Replace the existing JSON text with the following (you copy this can from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab09\\Exercise2\\JsonCmd3.txt**):

    ```
    {
    "name": "Input CameraTest DataLakeStore",
    "properties": {
    "type": "AzureDataLakeStore",
    "linkedServiceName": "AzureDataLakeStoreLinkedService",
    "typeProperties": {
    "folderPath": "CameraTestData/",
    "fileName": "CameraData.csv",
    "format": {
    "type": "TextFormat",
    "rowDelimiter": "\r\n",
    "columnDelimiter": ",",
    "firstRowAsHeader": true
    }
    },
    "external": true,
    "availability": {
    "frequency": "Minute",
    "interval": 30
    },
    "policy": {
    "externalData": {
    "retryInterval": "00:01:00",
    "retryTimeout": "00:10:00",
    "maximumRetry": 3
    }
    }
    }
    }
    ```
3.  Click **Deploy**.
4.  On the **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, click **More**, click **New dataset**, and then click **Azure Data Lake Store**.
5.  Replace the existing JSON text with the following (you copy this from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab09\\Exercise2\\JsonCmd4.txt**):

    ```
    {
    "name": "Output CameraTest DataLakeStore",
    "properties": {
    "type": "AzureDataLakeStore",
    "linkedServiceName": "AzureDataLakeStoreLinkedService",
    "typeProperties": {
    "folderPath": "CameraTestData/output/"
    },
    "external": false,
    "availability": {
    "frequency": "Minute",
    "interval": 30
    },
    "policy": {}
    }
    }
    ```
6.  Click **Deploy**.

#### Task 7: Create a Data Lake Analytics U-SQL activity
1.  In File Explorer, go to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab09\\Exercise2**, and then double-click **CameraDataProcessing.txt** to view the following script:

    ```
    // Find the statistics for a specific camera
    @datasource =
    EXTRACT CameraID string,
    SpeedLimit int,
    RecordedSpeed int,
    VehicleRegistration string,
    DetectionDateTime DateTime
    FROM @in
    USING Extractors.Csv(skipFirstNRows:1,nullEscape:"#NULL#");

    @speedSummary =
    SELECT CameraID,
    MAX(SpeedLimit) AS SpeedLimit,
    COUNT(*) AS NumberOfObservations,
    MIN(RecordedSpeed) AS Lowest,
    MAX(RecordedSpeed) AS Highest,
    AVG(RecordedSpeed) AS Average
    FROM @datasource
    WHERE CameraID == @camera
    GROUP BY CameraID;

    // Save the results
    OUTPUT @speedSummary
    TO @out
    USING Outputters.Csv(outputHeader: true, quoting: false);
    ```
> Note that this U-SQL script uses the CSV extractor to read a datafile that is stored at @in, extract some data, and assign this extract to @datasource. The script then performs some analysis on the data from a particular camera (as specified by @camera), and assigns the results to @speedSummary. The results in @speedSummary are then written out using the CSV outputter, and saved to the @out location. The @in, @out, and @camera parameters are assigned in the pipeline, not in this script.

2.  Close **CameraDataProcessing.txt**.

#### Task 8: Create and deploy a new pipeline
1.  On the **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, click **More**, then click **New pipeline**.
2.  Replace the existing JSON text with the following (this can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab09\\Exercise2\\JsonCmd5.txt**):

    ```
    {
    "name": "Speed data extract pipeline",
    "properties": {
    "description": "Pipeline to extract speed data for a specific CameraID.",
    "activities":
    [
    {
    "type": "DataLakeAnalyticsU-SQL",
    "typeProperties": {
    "scriptPath": "scripts\\CameraDataProcessing.txt",
    "scriptLinkedService": "AzureStorageLinkedService",
    "degreeOfParallelism": 3,
    "priority": 100,
    "parameters": {
    "in": "/CameraTestData/CameraData.csv",
    "out": "/CameraTestData/output/SpeedSummary.csv",
    "camera": "Camera 121"
    }
    },
    "inputs": [
    {
    "name": "Input CameraTest DataLakeStore"
    }
    ],
    "outputs":
    [
    {
    "name": "Output CameraTest DataLakeStore"
    }
    ],
    "policy": {
    "timeout": "06:00:00",
    "concurrency": 1,
    "executionPriorityOrder": "NewestFirst",
    "retry": 1
    },
    "scheduler": {
    "frequency": "Minute",
    "interval": 30
    },
    "name": "ASA U-SQL process",
    "linkedServiceName": "AzureDataLakeAnalyticsLinkedService"
    }
    ],
    "start": "2017-10-28T01:00:00Z",
    "end": "2017-10-30T01:00:00Z",
    "isPaused": false
    }
    }
    ```
> **IMPORTANT**: Change the value for the start property to be yesterday's date, and the value for the end property to be tomorrow's date.

3.  Click **Deploy**.
4.  Close the JSON editor, and **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade.

#### Task 9: Verify the U-SQL data transformation
1.  On the **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, in the **Actions** section, click **Diagram**.
2.  On the **Diagram** blade, if necessary, use the mouse to rearrange the pipelines so that they do not overlap, and then double-click **Input CameraTest DataLakeStore**.
3.  Under **Monitoring**, point out the slices with a **Ready** or **In Progress** status (you might need to click **See more** to see these, depending on your current time in relation to UTC).
4.  Close the **Data slices** blade (if open), and then close the **Input CameraTest DataLakeStore** blade.
5.  On the **Diagram** blade, double-click **Output CameraTest DataLakeStore**.
6.  Under **Monitoring**, note the slices with a **Ready** or **In Progress** status (you might need to click **See more** to see these, depending on your current time in relation to UTC).
7.  Close the **Data slices** blade (if open), and then close the **Output CameraTest DataLakeStore** blade.
8.  Close the **Diagram** blade.
9.  In the Azure portal, click **All resources**, click **adls&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**, and then click **Data Explorer**.
10. On the **Data Explorer** blade, click the **CameraTestData** folder, and then click **output**.
11. Click **SpeedSummary.csv**; this file should contain a header row and one row of data, showing the following:
    - The camera ID.
    - The maximum speed limit at that camera (that is, the actual speed limit, which is 30).
    - The number of recorded observations at that camera.
    - The lowest speed recorded at that camera (0).
    - The highest speed recorded at that camera (21).
    - The average speed recorded at that camera (7).
12. Close the **File Preview** blade.

>**Result**: At the end of this exercise, you will have:
1.  Prepared your environment and uploaded test data to your Data Lake Store.
2.  Added the Service Principal as a Contributor to the ADLA account.
3.  Created an Azure Data Lake Analytics linked service.
4.  Created a Data Lake Store linked service for input and output datasets.
5.  Created an Azure Storage Blob linked service for the U-SQL script.
6.  Created Data Lake Store input and output datasets.
7.  Created a Data Lake Analytics U-SQL Activity.
8.  Created and deployed a new pipeline.
9.  Verified the U-SQL data transformation.

## Exercise 3: Transform uploaded data by running an ML model in a Machine Learning linked service

#### Task 1: Prepare the environment
1.  Switch to the command prompt.
2.  At the command prompt, type the following commands (replacing **&lt;storage account name&gt;** with **speeddata&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;**, and replacing **&lt;access key&gt;** with the **Storage access key** value that you saved in **Auth\_details.txt**, and then press Enter:

    ```
    azcopy /Source:"E:\Labfiles\Lab09\Exercise3" /Pattern:"LiveSpeedData.csv" /Dest:https://<storage account name>.blob.core.windows.net/capturedspeeds /DestKey:<access key> /S
    ```
> You copy the preceding commands from **E:\\LabFiles\\Lab09\\Exercise3\\AZCopyCmd.txt**.

3.  In the Azure portal, click **All resources**, and then click **trafficwarehouse**.
4.  On the **trafficwarehouse** blade, click **Start**, and then click **Yes**.

#### Task 2: Obtain the API key and batch execution URL for a deployed ML model
1.  In the Azure portal, click **All resources**, and then click **Traffic**.
2.  Under **Additional Links**, click **Launch Machine Learning Studio**.
3.  On the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** page, click **Sign In**.
4.  In Machine Learning Studio, in the left menu, click **WEB SERVICES**, and then click the experiment that you created in Lab08, Exercise 2.
5.  Next the **API key**, click the **Copy** button.
6.  Start Notepad, type **Web service API key**, press Enter to create a new line, and then paste the API key.
7.  Click **BATCH EXECUTION**.
8.  On the **Batch Execution API Documentation for Experiment** page, select and copy the **Request URI**.
9.  Switch to Notepad, click at the end of the file, press Enter to create a new line, then type **Request URI**, press Enter to create a new line, and then paste the Request URI.
10. Save the file in your Documents folder, as **Web\_config.txt**.

#### Task 3: Create an ML linked service
1.  Switch to the Azure portal, click **All resources**, and then click **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**.
2.  If the **Settings** blade appears, close it.
3.  On the **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, click **Author and deploy**.
4.  On the **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, click **More**, click **New compute**, and then click **Azure ML**.
5.  In the JSON editor, edit the following properties:
    - **mlEndpoint**: replace the existing value with the **Request URI** you saved to **Config\_details.txt** (remember to use double quotes around the string).
    - **apiKey**: replace the existing value with the **Web service API key** you saved to **Config\_details.txt** (remember to use double quotes around the key).
    - Delete the three lines marked as **(Optional)**.
6.  Click **Deploy**.
7.  On the **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, expand **Linked services**, and then click **AzureMLLinkedService**.
> Note that the JSON-formatted information is the configuration detail for the connection to the Machine Learning web service, and that the API key has now been obfuscated with \*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*.

#### Task 4: Create Azure Storage input and output datasets
1.  On the **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, click **More**, click **New dataset**, and then click **Azure Blob storage**.
2.  Replace the existing JSON text with the following (you copy this from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab09\\Exercise3\\JsonCmd1.txt**):

    ```
    {
    "name": "Input from Azure Storage",
    "properties": {
    "type": "AzureBlob",
    "linkedServiceName": "AzureStorageLinkedService",
    "typeProperties": {
    "folderPath": "capturedspeeds/",
    "fileName": "LiveSpeedData.csv",
    "format": {
    "type": "TextFormat",
    "columnDelimiter": ","
    }
    },
    "external": true,
    "availability": {
    "frequency": "Minute",
    "interval": 15
    },
    "policy": {
    "externalData": {
    "retryInterval": "00:01:00",
    "retryTimeout": "00:10:00",
    "maximumRetry": 3
    }
    }
    }
    }
    ```
3.  Click **Deploy**.
4.  On the **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, click **More**, click **New dataset**, and then click **Azure Blob storage**.
5.  Replace the existing JSON text with the following (you copy this can from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab09\\Exercise3\\JsonCmd2.txt**):

    ```
    {
    "name": "Output to Azure Storage",
    "properties": {
    "type": "AzureBlob",
    "linkedServiceName": "AzureStorageLinkedService",
    "typeProperties": {
    "folderPath": "cameralivedata/scored/{folderpart}/",
    "fileName": "{filepart}result.csv",
    "partitionedBy": [
    {
    "name": "folderpart",
    "value": {
    "type": "DateTime",
    "date": "SliceStart",
    "format": "yyyyMMdd"
    }
    },
    {
    "name": "filepart",
    "value": {
    "type": "DateTime",
    "date": "SliceStart",
    "format": "HHmmss"
    }
    }
    ],
    "format": {
    "type": "TextFormat",
    "columnDelimiter": ","
    }
    },
    "availability": {
    "frequency": "Minute",
    "interval": 15
    }
    }
    }
    ```
6.  Click **Deploy**.

#### Task 5: Create and deploy a new pipeline
1.  On the **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, click **More**, then click **New pipeline**.
2.  Replace the existing JSON text with the following (you copy this from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab09\\Exercise3\\JsonCmd3.txt**):

    ```
    {
    "name": "ML Predictive Pipeline",
    "properties": {
    "activities": [
    {
    "name": "ML Activity",
    "type": "AzureMLBatchExecution",
    "inputs": [
    {
    "name": "Input from Azure Storage"
    }
    ],
    "outputs": [
    {
    "name": "Output to Azure Storage"
    }
    ],
    "linkedServiceName": "AzureMLLinkedService",
    "typeProperties":
    {
    "webServiceInput": "Input from Azure Storage",
    "webServiceOutputs": {
    "output1": "Output to Azure Storage"
    }
    },
    "policy": {
    "concurrency": 3,
    "executionPriorityOrder": "NewestFirst",
    "retry": 1,
    "timeout": "02:00:00"
    }
    }
    ],
    "start": "2017-10-23T00:00:00Z",
    "end": "2017-10-24T00:00:00Z"
    }
    }
    ```
> **IMPORTANT**: Change the value for the start property to be yesterday's date, and the value for the end property to be tomorrow's date.

3.  Click **Deploy**.
4.  Close the JSON editor, and **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade.

#### Task 6: Verify the ML data transformation
1.  On the **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, in the **Actions** section, click **Diagram**.
2.  On the **Diagram** blade, use the mouse to rearrange the three pipelines so that they do not overlap, and then double-click **Input from Azure Storage**.
3.  Under **Monitoring**, note the slices with a **Ready** or **In Progress** status (you might need to click **See more** to see these, depending on your current time in relation to UTC).
4.  Close the **Data slices** blade (if open), and then close the **Input from Azure Storage** blade.
5.  On the **Diagram** blade, double-click **Output to Azure Storage**.
6.  Under **Monitoring**, note the slices with a **Ready** or **In Progress** status (you might need to click **See more** to see these, depending on your current time in relation to UTC).
7.  Close the **Data slices** blade (if open), and then close the **Output to Azure Storage** blade.
8.  Close the **Diagram** blade.
9.  On the Start menu, type **Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer**, and then press Enter.
10. Under your Azure Learning Pass subscription, under **Storage Accounts**, expand **speeddata&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**, expand **Blob Containers**, and then click **cameralivedata**.
11. In the folder list, double-click **scored**, and note the dated folder (there might be more than one, depending on your time of day in relation to UTC).
12. Double-click one of the folders, and note that there are **result.csv** files for each timed slice; note also that as the output slices are being generated every 15 minutes, you might need to click **Refresh** to see additional files.
13. Double-click one of the **result.csv** files.
14. In the **Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer** dialog box, click **Yes**.
15. In Excel, note that the Scored Label Mean represents the predicted speed for that date and time, and at that camera location; in the real world, you would probably run the job every day, rather than every 15 minutes.
16. Close Excel without saving any changes.
17. Minimize Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer.
18. In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then click **trafficwarehouse**.
19. On the **trafficwarehouse** blade, click **Pause**, and then click **Yes**

>**Result**: At the end of this exercise, you will have:
1.  Started your Data Warehouse.
2.  Obtained the API key and batch execution URL for the deployed ML model.
3.  Created an ML linked service in Data Factory.
4.  Created Azure Storage input and output datasets.
5.  Created and deployed a new pipeline.
6.  Verified the ML data transformation.

## Exercise 4: Use the Monitoring and Management app to track progress of a pipeline

#### Task 1: Use the Diagram View to see overall job statuses
1.  In the Azure portal, click **All resources**, click **TrafficDF&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**.
2.  If the **Settings** blade appears, close it.
3.  On the **TrafficDF*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt; ***blade, in the **Actions** section, click **Monitor & Manage**.
4.  In the **Diagram View** at the top of the middle pane, use your mouse wheel or the + and - controls on the lower toolbar to zoom in and out; note the three pipelines from the previous exercises in this lab.
5.  In the **RESOURCE EXPLORER** tree view in the left pane, note the pipelines, datasets, linked services, and gateways from the previous exercises.
6.  In the **ACTIVITY WINDOWS** list at the bottom of the middle pane, note that by default all activities are listed in reverse chronological order, with the most recent activity at the top of the list.
7.  Click on the top activity to show details in the Activity Window Explorer in the right pane.
8.  In the Activity Window Explorer, note the calendar view, and how the 15 minute data slices are represented; if you had used daily or weekly slices, for example, the calendar display would reflect this.
9.  Scroll down and look at the summary information for this activity, including start and end time, activity name, the associated pipeline and datasets, and status information.
10. Click the cog icon to see the properties of this activity, including more detailed execution data.
11. In the **Diagram** view, click **Input from Azure Storage**; note the Properties shown for this dataset in the right pane.
12. Click the **Script** icon, to view the JSON for this dataset.
13. In the **Diagram** view, click **Output to Azure Storage**; click the cog icon to see the properties shown for this dataset in the right pane.
14. Click the **Script** icon, to view the JSON for this dataset.
15. In the **Diagram** view, click **Traffic DF Copy Pipeline**, click the cog icon to see the start and end times for the pipeline.

#### Task 2: Use filters and views to find specific status information
1.  Click the filter for the **Pipeline** column.
2.  In the dialog box, select the **Traffic DF Copy Pipeline** check box, and then click **OK**; note that using filters helps you see which activities are used by particular pipelines.
3.  In the **ACTIVITY WINDOWS** list, click the **Copy** icon.
4.  In Notepad, press Ctrl+V; verify that you can copy detailed activity log information for use in other applications, or for reporting.
5.  Click the filter for the **Status** column, and in the dialog box, select all the check boxes except for **Ready** and **None**, and then click **OK**; depending on how well your previous exercises performed, you might not actually see any activities at this point.
6.  Click the **Clear all filters from the activity windows list** icon.
7.  In the left-hand pane, click the **Monitoring views** icon (glasses).
8.  Expand **System Views**, and click **Failed activity windows**; note that using this view is an alternative to filtering the Activities list; again, you may not actually see any activities at this point.
9.  Under **System Views**, click **In-progress activity windows**; again, depending on the state of your pipelines, you might not actually see any activities at this point.

#### Task 3: Use alerts with Data Factory pipelines
1.  In the left pane, click the **Alerts** icon (Alarm clock).
2.  In the **ALERTS** pane, click **+ Add Alert**.
3.  On the **CREATE ALERT / DETAILS** blade, in the **Name** box, type **Completed activities**, and then click **Next**.
4.  On the **CREATE ALERT / FILTERS** blade, in the **Event** list, click **Activity Run Finished**.
5.  In the **Status** list, click **Succeeded**, and then click **Next**.
6.  On the **CREATE ALERT / RECIPIENTS** blade, select the **Email subscription admins** check box, and then click **Finish**.
7.  In the **Diagram** view, right-click the **Input from Azure Storage** activity, and then click **Create alert**.
8.  On the **CREATE ALERT / DETAILS** blade, in the **Name** box, type **Completed ML input**, and then click **Next**.
9.  On the **CREATE ALERT / FILTERS** blade, in the **Event** list, click **Activity Run Started**, and then click **Next**.
10. On the **CREATE ALERT / RECIPIENTS** blade, select the **Email subscription admins** check box, and then click **Finish**.
11. Open the inbox for the email address associated with your Azure subscription; steps will vary depending on the email provider.
12. You should have several alert messages; note that these may take a few minutes to arrive; note the differences between the general alert (Completed activities), and the alert for a specific activity (Completed backup input).

#### Task 4: Lab clean up
1.  In the Azure portal, click **Resource groups**.
2.  Right-click **CamerasRG**, and then click **Delete resource group**.
3.  In the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** box, type **CamerasRG**, and then click **Delete**.
4.  Close all open windows on the virtual machine, without saving if prompted.

>**Result**: At the end of this exercise, you will have:
1.  Used the Diagram View to see overall job statuses.
2.  Used filters and views to find specific status information.
3.  Used alerts with Data Factory pipelines.

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
