# Module 3: Performing Custom Processing in Azure Stream Analytics

# Lab: Performing custom processing with Stream Analytics

## Exercise 1: Use a Stream Analytics UDF function to identify specific data points

#### Task 1: Update the event hub and add a consumer group
1.  Click **All resources**, and then click **camerafeeds*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;***.
2.  On the **camerafeeds*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;*** blade, under **ENTITIES**, click **Event Hubs**, and then click **traffic**.
3.  On the **traffic** blade, click **+ Consumer Group**.
4.  On the **Create consumer group** blade, in the **Name** box, type **cameradatafeed3**, and then click **Create**.

#### Task 2: Add a queue to the Service Bus
1.  Click **All resources**, and then click **locationalerts*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;***.
2.  On the **locationalerts*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;*** blade, under **ENTITIES**, click **Queues**, and then click **+ Queue**.
3.  On the **Create queue** blade, in the **Name** box, type **SpeedCameraAlerts**.
4.  Leave all other settings at their defaults, and click **Create**.
5.  Wait until the queue has been successfully created before continuing with the lab.

#### Task 3: Configure the Location Alerts app
1.  On the Start menu, type **Visual Studio 2017**, and then press Enter.
2.  On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
3.  In the **Open Project** dialog box, go to the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\LocationAlerts** folder, click **LocationAlerts.sln**, and then click **Open**.
4.  In Solution Explorer, double-click **ConfigSettings.txt**.
5.  In ConfigSettings.txt, replace **YourServiceBusName** with **locationalerts*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;***.
6.  In ConfigSettings.txt, replace **YourPrimaryKey** with the SharedAccessKey for the Service Bus that you copied to **Config\_details.txt** in Module 2.
7.  On the **Build** menu, click **Build Solution**.
8.  Verify that the app compiles successfully; do not start the app.

#### Task 4: Reconfigure the TrafficAnalytics Stream Analytics job
1.  Click **All resources**, and then click **TrafficAnalytics**.
2.  On the **TrafficAnalytics** blade, under **JOB TOPOLOGY**, click **Inputs**, and then click **+ Add**.
3.  On the **New input** blade, enter the following details:
  -   **Input alias**: CameraDataFeed3
  -   **Source Type**: Data stream
  -   **Source**: Event hub
  -   **Import option**: Use event hub from current subscription
  -   **Event hub consumer group**: cameradatafeed3
4.  Leave all other settings at their defaults, and click **Create**.
5.  Wait until the input has been successfully created before continuing with the lab.
6.  On the **TrafficAnalytics - Inputs** blade, under **JOB TOPOLOGY**, click **Outputs**, and then click **+ Add**.
7.  On the **New output** blade, enter the following details:
  -   **Output alias**: SpeedCameraAlerts
  -   **Sink**: Service bus Queue
  -   **Import option**: Use queue from current subscription
  -   **Queue name**: speedcameraalerts
8.  Leave all other settings at their defaults, and click **Create**.
9.  Wait until the output has been successfully created before continuing with the lab.
10.  On the **TrafficAnalytics - Outputs** blade, under **JOB TOPOLOGY**, click **Functions**, and then click **+ Add**.
11.  On the **New function** blade, in the **Function Alias** box, type **IsSpeeding**.
12.  Replace the template function code text with the following, and then click **Create**:
```
// UDF that returns an integer value indicating whether a vehicle is speeding
function main(speedLimit, speed) {
return (speed \> speedLimit) ? 1 : 0;
}
```
You copy the preceding code from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\UDF1.txt**.
13.  On the **TrafficAnalytics - Functions** blade, under **JOB TOPOLOGY**, click **Query**, and then add the following to the end of the existing query, to send information about speeding cars to the speed camera message queue:
```
SELECT
CameraID,LocationLatitude,LocationLongitude,SpeedLimit,VehicleRegistration,Speed
INTO
SpeedCameraAlerts
FROM
CameraDataFeed3
WHERE
UDF.IsSpeeding(SpeedLimit, Speed) = 1
```
You copy the preceding commands from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\ASAquery1.txt**.
14.  Click **Save**, and then click **Yes**.
15.  On the **TrafficAnalytics - Query** blade, under **CONFIGURE**, click **Scale**.
16.  On the **TrafficAnalytics - Scale** blade, if not already set, drag the slider to **12**, click **Save**, and then click **Yes**.

#### Task 5: Start the Stream Analytics jobs
1.  On the **TrafficAnalytics - Scale** blade, click **Overview**, and then click **Start**.
2.  On the **Start job** blade, click **Now**, and then click **Start**.
3.  Wait until the job has been successfully started before continuing with the lab.
4.  Click **All resources**, and then click the **PatrolCarAnalytics** job.
5.  On the **PatrolCarAnalytics** blade, click **Start**.
6.  On the **Start job** blade, click **Now**, and then click **Start**.
7.  Wait until the job has been successfully started before continuing with the lab.

#### Task 6: Start the Speed Camera app
1.  On the Start menu, type **Visual Studio 2017**, and then press Enter to start a new instance of Visual Studio.
2.  On the **Get Started** page, click **Open Project / Solution**.
3.  In the **Open Project** dialog box, go to the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\SpeedCameraDevice** folder, click **SpeedCameraDevice.sln**, and then click **Open**.
4.  In Solution Explorer, double-click **App.config**.
5.  In App.config, in the **appSettings** section, in the **ServiceBusConnectionString** key, replace **YourNamespace** with **camerafeeds*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;***, and replace **YourPrimaryKey** with the event hub primary key you copied to **Config\_details.txt**.
6.  In Solution Explorer, right-click **SpeedCameraDriver**, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
7.  On the **Build** menu, click **Build Solution**.
8.  Verify that the app compiles successfully, and then click **Start**.
9.  Verify that the app opens a console window displaying generated speed camera data that is being sent to the event hub.

#### Task 7: Start the Patrol Car app
1.  On the Start menu, type **Visual Studio 2017**, and then press Enter, to start a new instance of Visual Studio.
2.  On the **Get Started** page, click **Open Project / Solution**.
3.  In the **Open Project** dialog box, go to the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\PatrolCarDevice** folder, click **PatrolCarDevice.sln**, and then click **Open**.
4.  In Solution Explorer, double-click **App.config**.
5.  In App.config, in the **appSettings** section, in the **ServiceBusConnectionString** key, replace **YourServiceBusName** with **locationalerts*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;***, and replace **YourServiceBusPrimaryKey** with the Service Bus primary key you copied to **Config\_details.txt**.
6.  In App.config, in the **appSettings** section, in the **IoTHubConnectionString** and **IotHubUri** keys, replace **YourIoTHub** with **patrolcars*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;***.
7.  In App.config, in the **appSettings** section, in the **IoTHubConnectionString** key, replace the SharedAccessKey value **YourIoTHubPrimaryKey** with the SharedAccessKey from the IoT Hub connection string you copied to **Config\_details.txt**.
8.  On the **Build** menu, click **Build Solution**.
9.  Verify that the app compiles successfully, and then click **Start**.
10. Verify that the app opens a console window displaying the generated positions of patrol cars that are being sent to the IoT Hub.

#### Task 8: Start the Location Alerts app
1.  Switch to your first instance of Visual Studio.
2.  In the **LocationAlerts** project, click **Local Machine** (Start).
3.  Verify that the app displays a map (of London), and starts to show the positions of speeding vehicles (and their speed), and the positions of dispatched patrol cars.
>**Note**: The map may take 5-10 minutes to display, and you might also need to wait before all the data appears on the map.

#### Task 9: View the results
1.  Let the system run for a few minutes, to give it time to detect some speeding vehicles, and then observe the fun!
2.  Note that the PatrolCarDevice project reports messages when a patrol car is dispatched to chase a speeding vehicle. You should also see the location of the patrol car change to move to the location reported for the speeding vehicle in the LocationAlerts app.

#### Task 10: Close jobs and apps
1.  Switch to the Azure portal.
2.  On the **PatrolCarAnalytics** blade, click **Overview**, click **Stop**, and then click **Yes**.
3.  Click **All resources**, and then click **TrafficAnalytics**.
4.  On the **TrafficAnalytics** blade, click **Overview**, click **Stop**, and then click **Yes**.
5.  On the **TrafficAnalytics** blade, under **CONFIGURE**, click **Scale**.
6.  On the **TrafficAnalytics - Scale** blade, drag the slider to **1**, click **Save**, and then click **Yes**.
7.  Close the Visual Studio map window, to stop the LocationAlerts app.
8.  In the **Visual Studio app** window for PatrolCar, press Enter to stop the app.
9.  In the **Visual Studio app** window for SpeedCameraDevice, press Enter to stop the app.
10. Close all the instances of Visual Studio.

>**Result**: At the end of this exercise, you will have added a new consumer group to your event hub, added a new queue to your Service Bus, reconfigured an existing Stream Analytics job to use these resources, and added a UDF that returns an integer value indicating whether a vehicle is speeding. You will also have tested this logic using Visual Studio apps.

## Exercise 2: Use a Stream Analytics UDF to identify duplicate data records

#### Task 1: Update the event hub and add a consumer group
1.  In the Azure portal, click **All resources**, and then click **camerafeeds*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;***.
2.  On the **camerafeeds*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;*** blade, under **ENTITIES**, click **Event Hubs**, and then click **traffic**.
3.  On the **traffic** blade, click **+ Consumer Group**.
4.  On the **Create consumer group** blade, in the **Name** box, type **vehiclefeed**, and then click **Create**.

#### Task 2: Create and configure a new Stream Analytics job
1.  In the Azure portal, click **+ New**, click **Data + Analytics**, and then click **Stream Analytics job**.
2.  On the **New Stream Analytics Job** blade, in the **Job name** box, type **RegistrationAnalytics**.
3.  Under **Resource group**, click **Use existing**, and then click **CamerasRG**.
4.  In the **Location** list, select the same location as you used for the Data Lake Store, and then click **Create**.
5.  Wait until the Stream Analytics job has deployed before continuing with the lab.
6.  In the Azure portal, click **All resources**, and then click **RegistrationAnalytics**.
7.  On the **RegistrationAnalytics** blade, under **JOB TOPOLOGY**, click **Outputs**, and then click **+ Add**.
8.  On the **New output** blade, enter the following details:
  -   **Output alias**: DuplicateVehicles
  -   **Sink**: Data Lake Store
  -   Click **Authorize**
  -   **Path prefix pattern**: Duplicates/{date}/{time}
9.  Leave all other settings at their defaults, and click **Create**.
10.  Wait until the output has been successfully created before continuing with the lab.
11.  On the **RegistrationAnalytics - Outputs** blade, under **JOB TOPOLOGY**, click **Inputs**, and then click **+ Add**.
12.  On the **New input** blade, enter the following details:
  -   **Input alias**: VehicleFeed
  -   **Source Type**: Data stream
  -   **Source**: Event hub
  -   **Import option**: Use event hub from current subscription
  -   **Event hub consumer group**: vehiclefeed
13.  Leave all other settings at their defaults, and click **Create**.
14.  Wait until the input has been successfully created before continuing with the lab.
15.  On the **RegistrationAnalytics - Inputs** blade, under **JOB TOPOLOGY**, click **Functions**, and then click **+ Add**.
16.  On the **New function** blade, in the **Function Alias** box, type **DuplicatedVehicle**.
17.  Replace the template function code text with the code from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\UDF2.txt**.
18.  Click **Create**.
19.  On the **RegistrationAnalytics - Functions** blade, under **JOB TOPOLOGY**, click **Query**.
20.  On the **RegistrationAnalytics - Query** blade, replace the template query text with the following, to send information about suspicious vehicles to the Data Lake Store:
```
SELECT
UDF.DuplicatedVehicle(Collect())
INTO
DuplicateVehicles
FROM
VehicleFeed
GROUP BY
TumblingWindow(minute, 2)
```
You copy the preceding commands from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\ASAquery2.txt**.
21.  Click **Save**, and then click **Yes**.
22.  On the **RegistrationAnalytics - Query** blade, click **Overview**, and then click **Start**.
23.  On the **Start job** blade, click **Now**, and then click **Start**.
24.  Wait until the job has been successfully started before continuing with the lab.

#### Task 3: Start the Speed Camera app
1.  On the Start menu, type **Visual Studio 2017**, and then press Enter.
2.  On the **Get Started** page, click **Open Project / Solution**.
3.  In the **Open Project** dialog box, go to the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\SpeedCameraDevice2** folder, click **SpeedCameraDevice.sln**, and then click **Open**.
4.  In Solution Explorer, double-click **App.config**.
5.  In App.config, in the **appSettings** section, in the **ServiceBusConnectionString** key, replace **YourNamespace** with **camerafeeds*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;***, and replace **YourPrimaryKey** with the event hub primary key you copied to **Config\_details.txt**.
6.  In Solution Explorer, right-click **SpeedCameraDriver**, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
7.  On the **Build** menu, click **Build Solution**.
8.  Verify that the app compiles successfully, and then click **Start**.
9.  Verify that the app opens a console window displaying generated speed camera data that is being sent to the event hub.

#### Task 4: Examine the generated data
1.  In the Azure portal, click **All resources**, and then click **adls*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;***.
2.  On the **adls*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt; ***blade, click **Data Explorer**.
3.  In the Data Explorer, expand **Duplicates**, and then expand all the subfolders.
4.  Click the JSON file to view the contents in File Preview; verify that the data includes duplicate registration numbers, and the locations at which they have been detected.
5.  Close the File Preview blade.

#### Task 5: Close jobs and apps
1.  Click **All resources**, and then click **RegistrationAnalytics**.
2.  On the **RegistrationAnalytics** blade, click **Stop**, and then click **Yes**.
3.  Switch to the Visual Studio app window (where the data is being generated), and press Enter to stop the app.
4.  Close Visual Studio.

>**Result**: At the end of this exercise, you will have added a new consumer group to your event hub, and created a new Stream Analytics job that uses a UDF to identify duplicate vehicle registrations. You will also have tested this logic using a Visual Studio app.

## Exercise 3: Use Machine Learning with Stream Analytics to identify data anomalies

#### Task 1: Update the event hub and add a consumer group
1.  Click **All resources**, and then click **camerafeeds*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;***.
2.  On the **camerafeeds*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;*** blade, under **ENTITIES**, click **Event Hubs**, and then click **traffic**.
3.  On the **traffic** blade, click **+ Consumer Group**.
4.  On the **Create consumer group** blade, in the **Name** box, type **cameradatafeed4**, and then click **Create**.

#### Task 2: Create and configure a new Stream Analytics job
1.  In the Azure portal, click **+ New**, click **Data + Analytics**, and then click **Stream Analytics job**.
2.  On the **New Stream Analytics Job** blade, in the **Job name** box, type **CaptureTrafficData**.
3.  Under **Resource group**, click **Use existing**, and then click **CamerasRG**.
4.  In the **Location** list, select the same location as you used for the Data Lake Store, and then click **Create**.
5.  Wait until the Stream Analytics job has deployed before continuing with the lab.
6.  In the Azure portal, click **All resources**, and then click **CaptureTrafficData**.
7.  On the **CaptureTrafficData** blade, under **JOB TOPOLOGY**, click **Inputs**, and then click **+ Add**.
8.  On the **New input** blade, enter the following details:
  -   **Input alias**: CameraDataFeed4
  -   **Source Type**: Data stream
  -   **Source**: Event hub
  -   **Import option**: Use event hub from current subscription
  -   **Event hub consumer group**: cameradatafeed4
9.  Leave all other settings at their defaults, and click **Create**.
10.  Wait until the input has been successfully created before continuing with the lab.
11.  On the **CaptureTrafficData - Inputs** blade, under **JOB TOPOLOGY**, click **Outputs**, and then click **+ Add**.
12.  On the **New output** blade, enter the following details:
  -   **Output alias**: TrafficData
  -   **Sink**: Data Lake Store
  -   Click **Authorize**
  -   **Path prefix pattern**: TrafficTrainingData/
  -   **Event serialization format**: CSV
13.  Leave all other settings at their defaults, and click **Create**.
14.  Wait until the output has been successfully created before continuing with the lab.
15.  On the **CaptureTrafficData - Outputs** blade, under **JOB TOPOLOGY**, click **Query**.
16.  On the **CaptureTrafficData - Query** blade, replace the template query text with the following:
```
SELECT
CameraID,Speed,DATEPART(hour, Time)
AS
HourOfDay
INTO
TrafficData
FROM
CameraDataFeed4
```
You copy the preceding commands from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\ASAquery3.txt**.
17.  Click **Save**, and then click **Yes**.
18.  On the **CaptureTrafficData - Query** blade, click **Overview**, and then click **Start**.
19.  On the **Start job** blade, click **Now**, and then click **Start**.
20.  Wait until the job has been successfully started before continuing with the lab.


#### Task 3: Configure and start the Speed Camera app
1.  On the Start menu, type **Visual Studio 2017**, and then press Enter.
2.  On the **Get Started** page, click **Open Project / Solution**.
3.  In the **Open Project** dialog box, go to the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\SpeedCameraDevice3** folder, click **SpeedCameraDevice.sln**, and then click **Open**.
4.  In Solution Explorer, double-click **App.config**.
5.  In App.config, in the **appSettings** section, in the **ServiceBusConnectionString** key, replace **YourNamespace** with **camerafeeds*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;***, and replace **YourPrimaryKey** with the event hub primary key you copied to Config\_details.txt in Lab 2, Exercise 3.
6.  In Solution Explorer, right-click **SpeedCameraDriver**, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
7.  On the **Build** menu, click **Build Solution**.
8.  Verify that the app compiles successfully, and then click **Start**.
9.  Verify that the app opens a console window displaying generated speed camera data that is being sent to the event hub.
10. Let the app run for at least five minutes.

#### Task 4: Stop the Speed Camera app and the CaptureTrafficData Stream Analytics job
1.  In the Visual Studio app window for **SpeedCameraDevice**, press Enter to stop the app.
2.  In the Azure portal, on the **CaptureTrafficData** blade, click **Stop**, and click **Yes**.
3.  Click **All resources**, and then click **adls*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;***.
4.  On the **adls*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;*** blade, click **Data Explorer**.
5.  In the Data Explorer, click **TrafficTrainingData**, and then click the CSV file to view the contents in File Preview; verify that the data includes the speed camera name, recorded traffic speed, and time from your Stream Analytics query, and then close the File Preview blade.

>Note that this file contains the locations of the cameras used by the training run. For consistency, when you run the app in "non-training" mode, it will read these same locations for the speed cameras. If you run the app in training mode again, make sure that you delete this file first, otherwise you will get duplicate speed cameras —but at different locations.

#### Task 5: Download the training data
1.  In the Data Explorer, click **Download**.
2.  In the **Download** pane, click **Start Download now**.
3.  In the Internet Explorer message box, click the **Save** drop-down arrow, and then click **Save as**.
4.  In the **Save As** dialog box, go to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03**, and in the **File name** box, type **TrafficData**, and click **Save**.
5.  In the Internet Explorer message box, click **Open**, to view the data in Excel; verify that the downloaded file contains data on speed camera name, recorded traffic speed, and time.
6.  Close Excel.
7.  In the Azure portal, close the Download pane.

#### Task 6: Create a Machine Learning workspace
1.  In the Azure portal, click **+ New**, click **Data + Analytics**, click **See all**, click **Machine Learning Workspace**, and then click **Create**.
2.  On the **Machine Learning Workspace** blade, in the **Workspace name** box, type **Traffic**.
3.  Under **Resource group**, click **Use existing**, and then click **CamerasRG**.
4.  In the **Location** list, select the nearest location to the one you used for the Data Lake Store.
5.  Under **Storage account**, ensure that **Create new** is selected, and then in the box, type **traffic*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;***.
6.  In the **Workspace pricing tier** list, ensure that **Standard** is selected.
7.  Under **Web service plan**, ensure that **Create new** is selected, and accept the default name.
8.  Click **Web service plan pricing tier**, click **DEVTEST Standard**, and then click **Select**.
9.  Click **Create**.
10. Wait until the workspace has been deployed before continuing.

#### Task 7: Create a machine learning experiment
1.  Click **All resources**, and then click **Traffic**.
2.  On the **Traffic** blade, under **Additional Links**, click **Launch Machine Learning Studio**.
3.  On the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** page, click **Sign in**.
4.  If prompted, sign in using your Azure account credentials.
5.  On the **MY EXPERIMENTS** page, click **+ NEW**, click **DATASET**, and then click **FROM LOCAL FILE**.
6.  In the **Upload a new dataset** dialog box, click **Browse**.
7.  In the **Choose file to upload** dialog box, go to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03**, click **TrafficData.csv**, and then click **Open**.
8.  In the **Upload a new dataset** dialog box, in the **SELECT A TYPE FOR THE NEW DATASET** list, click **Generic CSV File with a header (.csv)**, and then click **Ok** (tick).
9.  On the **MY EXPERIMENTS** page, click **+ NEW**, click **EXPERIMENT**, and then click **Blank Experiment**.
10. In the **Datasets and Modules** list, expand **Save Datasets**, and then expand **My Datasets**.
11. Drag **TrafficData.csv** to the workspace canvas.
12. In the **Search experiment items** box, type **Split**, and then from the module list, drag **Split Data** to the experiment canvas, below the dataset.
13. Connect **Split Data** to **TrafficData.csv**; to do this, click **TrafficData.csv**, and the output node will show the number 1. Click the output node and, keeping the mouse pressed down, draw a line from the dataset module to the upper input port of the **Split Data** module.
14. Click **Split Data**.
15. In the **Properties** pane, in the **Fraction of rows in the first output dataset** box, type **0.7**.
16. In the **Search experiment items** box, type **Train Anomaly**, and then from the module list, drag **Train Anomaly Detection Model** to the experiment canvas, below the **Split Data** module.
17. Connect the leftmost output of the **Split Data** module to the upper right input port of the **Train Anomaly Detection Model** module (this is the Dataset input).
18. In the **Search experiment items** box, type **One-Class**, and then from the module list, drag **One-Class Support Vector Machine** to the experiment canvas, to the left of the **Split Data** module.
19. Connect the output of the **One-Class Support Vector Machine Model** module to the upper left input port of the **Train Anomaly Detection Model** module (this is the untrained model input).
20. In the **Search experiment items** box, type **Score**, and then from the module list, drag **Score Model** to the experiment canvas, below the **Train Anomaly Detection Model** module.
21. Connect the output of the **Train Anomaly Detection Model** module to the leftmost input of the **Score Model** module (this is the trained model input).
22. Connect the rightmost output of the **Split Data** module to the rightmost input of the **Score Model** module (this is the Dataset input).
23. In the toolbar, click **SAVE**, and then click **RUN**.
24. When the experiment has finished running, all modules will show a green check mark to indicate that they have successfully finished.

#### Task 8: Create a trained model
1.  Right-click the **Train Anomaly Detection Model** module, point to **Trained model**, and then click **Save as Trained Model**.
2.  In the **Save trained model** dialog box, in the **Enter a name for the new trained model** box, type **Trained TrafficSpeeds**, and then click **Ok** (tick).
3.  Right-click the **One-Class Support Vector Machine** module, then click **Delete**.
4.  Right-click the **Train Anomaly Detection Model** module, then click **Delete**.
5.  In the **Search experiment items** box, type **Trained**, and then from the module list, drag **Trained TrafficSpeeds** to the experiment canvas, to the left of the **Split Data** module.
6.  Connect the output of the **Trained TrafficSpeeds** module to the leftmost input of the **Score Model** module.

#### Task 9: Expose the trained model as a web service
1.  In the toolbar, click **SET UP WEB SERVICE**.
2.  If the **STEP 1** dialog box appears, click **X**.
3.  Right-click the connection from the **Web service input** module to the **Split Data** module, and then click **Delete**.
4.  Connect the output of the **Web service input** module to the rightmost input of the **Score Model** module.
5.  In the toolbar, click **SAVE**, and then click **RUN** (to validate the changes).
6.  When the experiment has finished running, all modules will show a green check mark to indicate that they have successfully finished.
7.  In the toolbar, click **DEPLOY WEB SERVICE**, and then click **Deploy Web Service [Classic]**.
8.  Next to the **API key**, click the **Copy** button.
9.  Switch to Notepad, and then open **Config\_details.txt** file.
10. In Notepad, press CTRL+END, press Enter, type **Web service API key**, and then press Enter.
11. On the **Edit** menu, click **Paste** to store the API key.
12. Switch to Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio.
13. On the **experiment created on *\<date\>*** page, click **New Web Services Experience**.
14. On the **Experiment created on *\<date\>*** page, under **BASICS**, click **Configure endpoint**.
15. In the **Description** box, type **Traffic speed anomaly detection web service**, and then click **Save**.
16. In the toolbar, click **Quickstart**, and then click **Use endpoint**.
17. Next to the **Request-Response** URL, click the **Copy** button.
18. Switch to Notepad, and then open **Config\_details.txt** file.
19. In Notepad, press CTRL+END, press Enter, type **Request-Response URL**, and then press Enter.
20. On the **Edit** menu, click **Paste**, to store the Request-Response URL.

#### Task 10: Add another consumer group to the Speed Camera event hub
1.  Switch to the Azure portal.
2.  Click **All resources**, and then click **camerafeeds*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;***.
3.  On the **camerafeeds*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;*** blade, under **ENTITIES**, click **Event Hubs**, and then click **traffic**.
4.  On the **traffic** blade, click **+ Consumer Group**.
5.  On the **Create consumer group** blade, in the **Name** box, type **cameraspeedanomalyfeed**, and then click **Create**.

#### Task 11: Create a new Service Bus queue
1.  Click **All resources**, and then click **locationalerts*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;***.
2.  On the **locationalerts*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt; ***blade, under **ENTITIES**, click **Queues**.
3.  On the **Queues** blade, click **+ Queue**.
4.  On the **Create queue** blade, in the **Name** box, type **TrafficJamAlerts**.
5.  Leave all other settings at their defaults, and click **Create**.
6.  Wait until the queue has been successfully created before continuing with the lab.

#### Task 12: Create and configure a new Stream Analytics job
1.  Switch to the Azure portal, click **+ New**, click **Data + Analytics**, and then click **Stream Analytics job**.
2.  On the **New Stream Analytics Job** blade, in the **Job name** box, type **DetectSpeedAnomalies**.
3.  Under **Resource group**, click **Use existing**, and then click **CamerasRG**.
4.  In the **Location** list, select the same location as you used for the Data Lake Store, and then click **Create**.
5.  Wait until the Stream Analytics job has deployed before continuing with the lab.
6.  Click **All resources**, and then click **DetectSpeedAnomalies**.
7.  On the **DetectSpeedAnomalies** blade, under **CONFIGURE**, click **Scale**.
8.  On the **Scale** blade, drag the slider to **12**, click **Save**, and then click **Yes**.
9.  On the **DetectSpeedAnomalies - Scale** blade, under **JOB TOPOLOGY**, click **Inputs**, and then click **+ Add**.
10. In the **New input** blade, enter the following details:
  -   **Input alias**: SpeedCameraData
  -   **Source Type**: Data stream
  -   **Source**: Event hub
  -   **Import option**: Use event hub from current subscription
  -   **Event hub consumer group**: cameraspeedanomalyfeed
11.  Leave all other settings at their defaults, and click **Create**.
12.  Wait until the input has been successfully created before continuing with the lab.
13.  On the **DetectSpeedAnomalies - Inputs** blade, under **JOB TOPOLOGY**, click **Outputs**, and then click **+ Add**.
14.  On the **New output** blade, enter the following details:
  -   **Output alias**: TrafficData
  -   **Sink**: Data Lake Store
  -   Click **Authorize**
  -   **Path prefix pattern**: TrafficJams/{date}/{time}
  -   **Event serialization format**: JSON
15.  Leave all other settings at their defaults, and click **Create**.
16.  Wait until the output has been successfully created before continuing with the lab.
17.  On the **DetectSpeedAnomalies - Outputs** blade, under **JOB TOPOLOGY**, click **Functions**, and then click **+ Add**.
18.  On the **New function** blade, in the **Function Alias** box, type **SpeedAnomaly**.
19.  In the **Function Type** list, click **AzureML**.
20.  In the **Import option** list, click **Import from a different subscription**.
21.  In the **URL** box, paste the Request-Response URL that you copied to **Config\_details.txt**.
22.  In the **Key** box, paste the web service API key that you copied to **Config\_details.txt**.
23.  Click **Create** and note that you should ignore the Adding function notification, as this never goes away!
24. On the **DetectSpeedAnomalies - Functions** blade, under **JOB TOPOLOGY**, click **Outputs**, and then click **+ Add**.
25. On the **New output** blade, enter the following details:
  -   **Output alias**: TrafficJamAlerts
  -   **Sink**: Service Bus queue
  -   **Import option**: Use queue from current subscription
  -   **Queue name**: trafficjamalerts
26.  Leave all other settings at their defaults, and click **Create**.
27.  Wait until the output has been successfully created before continuing with the lab.
28.  On the **DetectSpeedAnomalies - Outputs** blade, under **JOB TOPOLOGY**, click **Query**, and then replace the template query text with the following:

    ```
WITH
SpeedAnomalies
AS
(SELECT CameraID, AVG(Speed) AS AvgSpeed, SpeedAnomaly(CameraID, AVG(Speed), DATEPART(hour, MAX(Time))) AS Results, DATEPART(hour, MAX(Time)) AS HourOfDay
FROM
SpeedCameraData
TIMESTAMP BY
Time
GROUP BY
CameraID, TumblingWindow(minute, 2))

    SELECT
CameraID, AvgSpeed, HourOfDay
INTO
TrafficData
FROM
SpeedAnomalies
WHERE
Results.[Scored Labels] = '1'

    SELECT
CameraID, AvgSpeed
INTO
TrafficJamAlerts
FROM
SpeedAnomalies
WHERE
Results.[Scored Labels] = '1'
```
You copy the preceding commands from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\ASAquery4.txt**.
29.  Click **Save**, and then click **Yes**.

#### Task 13: Start the Stream Analytics jobs
1.  On the **DetectSpeedAnomalies - Query** blade, click **Overview**, and then click **Start**.
2.  On the **Start job** blade, click **Now**, and then click **Start**.
3.  Wait until the job has been successfully started before continuing with the lab.
4.  Click **All resources**, and then click **TrafficAnalytics**.
5.  On the **TrafficAnalytics** blade, click **Start**.
6.  On the **Start job** blade, click **Now**, and then click **Start**.
7.  Wait until the job has been successfully started before continuing with the lab.
8.  Click **All resources**, and then click **PatrolCarAnalytics**.
9.  On the **PatrolCarAnalytics** blade, click **Start**.
10. On the **Start job** blade, click **Now**, and then click **Start**.
11. Wait until the job has been successfully started before continuing with the lab.

#### Task 14l: Configure the Location Alerts app
1.  On the Start menu, type **Visual Studio 2017**, and then press Enter.
2.  On the **Get Started** page, click **Open Project / Solution**.
3.  In the **Open Project** dialog box, go to the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\LocationAlerts2** folder, click **LocationAlerts.sln**, and then click **Open**.
4.  In Solution Explorer, double-click **ConfigSettings.txt**.
5.  In ConfigSettings.txt, replace **YourServiceBusName** with **locationalerts*&lt;your name&gt;&lt;date&gt;***.
6.  In ConfigSettings.txt, replace **YourPrimaryKey** with the SharedAccessKey for the Service Bus that you copied to **Config\_details.txt** in Lab2, Exercise 2.
7.  On the **Build** menu, click **Build Solution**.
8.  Verify that the app compiles successfully; do not start the app.

#### Task 15: Start the Patrol Car and Speed Camera apps
1.  On the Start menu, type **Visual Studio 2017**, and then press Enter, to start a new instance of Visual Studio.
2.  On the **Get Started** page, click **Open Project / Solution**.
3.  In the **Open Project** dialog box, go to the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\PatrolCarDevice** folder, click **PatrolCarDevice.sln**, and then click **Open**.
4.  Click **Start**.
5.  Verify that the app opens a console window displaying the generated positions of patrol cars that are being sent to the IoT Hub.
6.  Switch to the **SpeedCameraDevice** instance of Visual Studio.
7.  In App.config, in the **appSettings** section, in the **TrainingRun** key, replace **true** with **false**.
8.  On the **Build** menu, click **Build Solution**.
9.  Verify that the app compiles successfully.
10. Click **Start**.
11. Verify that the app opens a console window displaying generated speed camera data that is being sent to the event hub.

#### Task 16: Start the Location Alerts app and view the results
1.  Switch to the **LocationAlerts** instance of Visual Studio.
2.  Click **Local Machine** (Start) to run the LocationAlerts project.
3.  Verify that the app displays a map (of London), and starts to show the positions of speeding anomalies, the positions of dispatched patrol cars, and traffic blockage alert messages where traffic is not moving (speeds = 0 mph).
>**Note**: The map may take 5-10 minutes to display, and you might also need to wait before all the data appears on the map.

#### Task 17: Lab closedown
1.  Switch to the Azure portal, on the **PatrolCarAnalytics** blade, click **Stop**, and click **Yes**.
2.  Click **All resources**, and then click **TrafficAnalytics**.
3.  On the **TrafficAnalytics** blade, click **Stop**, and then click **Yes**.
4.  On the **TrafficAnalytics** blade, under **CONFIGURE**, click **Scale**.
5.  On the **TrafficAnalytics - Scale** blade, drag the slider to **1**, click **Save**, and then click **Yes**.
6.  Click **All resources**, and then click **DetectSpeedAnomalies**.
7.  On the **DetectSpeedAnomalies** blade, click **Stop**, and click **Yes**.
8.  On the **DetectSpeedAnomalies** blade, under **CONFIGURE**, click **Scale**.
9.  On the **DetectSpeedAnomalies** **- Scale** blade, drag the slider to **1**, click **Save**, and then click **Yes**.
10. Close the Visual Studio map window, to stop the **LocationAlerts** app.
11. In the Visual Studio app window for **PatrolCarDevice**, press Enter to stop the app.
12. In the Visual Studio app window for **SpeedCameraDevice**, press Enter to stop the app.
13. Close all the instances of Visual Studio.
14. Do not remove the Azure resources (resource group, Stream Analytics jobs, event hub, IoT hub, and storage); these resources will be used in later labs.
15. Close Internet Explorer.

>**Result**: At the end of this exercise, you will have added new consumer groups to your event hub, and created a new Stream Analytics job that works with a Visual Studio app to generate training data. You will then create a machine learning experiment to detect anomalous data, train your model using the generated training data, and then deploy the trained model as a web service. You will also have created a second new Stream Analytics job that uses the Machine Learning web service, and the model using Visual Studio apps.

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
