# Module 4: Managing Big Data in Azure Data Lake Store

# Lab: Managing big data in Data Lake Store

## Exercise 1: Perform Data Lake Store operations using PowerShell

#### Task 1: Install AzCopy
1.  Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20776A-LON-DC**, and **20776A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20776A-LON-DEV** as **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2.  On the Start menu, type **Internet Explorer**, and then Press Enter.
3.  In Internet Explorer, go to **https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/storage-use-azcopy**.
4.  On the **Transfer data with the AzCopy on Windows** page, click the **Download and install AzCopy on Windows** link, and then click the **latest version of AzCopy on Windows** link.
5.  In the Internet Explorer message box, click **Run**.
6.  In the **Microsoft Azure Storage Tools – v6.2.0 Setup** dialog box, on the **Welcome to the Microsoft Azure Storage Tools – v6.2.0 Setup Wizard** page, click **Next**.
7.  On the **End-User License Agreement** page, select the **I accept the terms in the License Agreement** check box, and then click **Next**.
8.  On the **Destination Folder** page, click **Next**.
9.  On the **Ready to install Microsoft Azure Storage Tools – v6.2.0** page, click **Install**.
10. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
11. On the **Completed the Microsoft Azure Storage Tools – v6.2.0 Setup Wizard** page, click **Finish**.
12. Right-click the Start button, click **System**, and then click **Advanced system settings**.
13. In the **System Properties** dialog box, click **Environment Variables**.
14. In the **Environment Variables** dialog box, under **User variable for AdatumAdmin**, click **Path**, and then click **Edit**.
15. In the **Edit User Variable** dialog box, in the **Variable value** box, at the end of the existing text, type **C:\\Program Files (x86)\\Microsoft SDKs\\Azure\\AzCopy;**, and then click **OK**.
16. In the **Environment Variables** dialog box, click **OK**.
17. In the **System Properties** dialog box, click **OK**.

#### Task 2: Install AdlCopy
1.  In Internet Explorer, go to **https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=50358**.
2.  On the **AdlCopy** page, click **Download**.
3.  In the Internet Explorer message box, click **Run**.
4.  In the **AdlCopy** dialog box, on the **Welcome to the AdlCopy Setup Wizard** page, click **Next**.
5.  On the **License Agreement** page, click **I Agree**, and then click **Next**.
6.  On the **Select Installation Folder** page, click **Next**.
7.  On the **Confirm Installation** page, click **Next**.
8.  In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
9.  On the **Installation Complete** page, click **Close**.
10. Close Internet Explorer.
11. In the **System** window, click **Advanced system settings**.
12. In the **System Properties** dialog box, click **Environment Variables**.
13. In the **Environment Variables** dialog box, under **User variable for AdatumAdmin**, click **Path**, and then click **Edit**.
14. In the **Edit environment variable** dialog box, click **New**.
15. In the text box, type **%HOMEPATH%\\Documents\\AdlCopy**, and then click **OK**.
16. In the **Environment Variables** dialog box, click **OK**.
17. In the **System Properties** dialog box, click **OK**.
18. Close the System window.

#### Task 3: Prepare the PowerShell environment
1.  Open File Explorer, go to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04**, right-click **Setup.cmd**, and then click **Run as administrator**.
2.  In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
3.  On the Start menu, type **PowerShell**, right-click **Windows** **PowerShell ISE**, and then click **Run as administrator**.
4.  In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
5.  On the **File** menu, click **Open**.
6.  In the **Open** dialog box, go to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04**, click **ADLS\_commands.ps1**, and then click **Open**, to open the following script:

    ```
	# Log in to Azure
	Login-AzureRmAccount

    # Register the Azure Data Lake Store provider
	Register-AzureRmResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace "Microsoft.DataLakeStore"

    # Create a new Resource Group
	New-AzureRmResourceGroup -Location "<location>" -Name "LakeStoreRG"

    # Create a new Data Lake Store Account
	$resourceGroupName = "LakeStoreRG"
	$dataLakeStoreName = "<name of new Data Lake Store>"
	New-AzureRmDataLakeStoreAccount -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Name $dataLakeStoreName -Location "<location>"

    # Verify that the Data Lake Store account has been created
	Test-AzureRmDataLakeStoreAccount -Name $dataLakeStoreName

    # Create a folder named VehicleOwnerData
	$folder="/VehicleOwnerData"
	New-AzureRmDataLakeStoreItem -Folder -AccountName $dataLakeStoreName -Path $folder

    # Upload the VehicleOwners.csv file to the VehicleOwnerData folder
	Import-AzureRmDataLakeStoreItem -Account $dataLakeStoreName -Path "E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Exercise1\\VehicleOwners.csv" -Destination $folder\\VehicleOwners.csv

    # List all files and folders in the VehicleOwnerData directory
	Get-AzureRmDataLakeStoreChildItem -AccountName $dataLakeStoreName -Path $folder
	```
7.  Edit the script, replacing **&lt;name of new Data Lake Store&gt;** with **lakestore&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**, and both instances of **&lt;location&gt;** with **Central US**, **East US 2**, or **North Europe**.
8.  On the **File** menu, click **Save**.

#### Task 4: Use PowerShell to create a new Data Lake Store
1.  To create a new Data Lake Store, highlight lines 1-13, and then on the toolbar, click **Run Selection**.
2.  In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, enter the details of the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription, and then click **Sign in**.
3.  To verify that the new Data Lake Store has been created, highlight lines 15-16, and then on the toolbar, click **Run Selection**.

#### Task 5: Use PowerShell to manage files and folders in Data Lake Store
1.  To create a folder called **VehicleOwnerData**, highlight lines 18-20, and then on the toolbar, click **Run Selection**.
2.  To upload a file called **VehicleOwners.csv** to the **VehicleOwnerData** folder, highlight lines 22-23, and then on the toolbar, click **Run Selection**.
3.  To list all files and folders in the **VehicleOwnerData** directory, highlight lines 25-26, and then on the toolbar, click **Run Selection**.

>**Result**: At the end of this exercise, you will have used PowerShell cmdlets to:
-   Create a new Data Lake Store (in a new resource group).
-   Create a folder in this store.
-   Upload a file to the folder.
-   Display to files in the folder.

## Exercise 2: Upload bulk data to Data Lake Store

#### Task 1: Create a new Storage account and Blob container
1.  On the Start menu, type **Internet Explorer**, and then Press Enter.
2.  In Internet Explorer, go to **http://portal.azure.com**, and sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
3.  Click **+ New**, click **Storage**, and then click **Storage account - blob, file, table, queue**.
4.  On the **Create storage account** blade, in the **Name** box, type **blob&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**.
5.  Under **Resource group**, click **Use existing**, and then click **LakeStoreRG**.
6.  In the **Location** list, select the same location as you used for the Data Lake Store in Exercise 1.
7.  Leave all other details at their defaults, and click **Create**.
8.  Wait until the storage account has been successfully created before continuing with the exercise.
9.  Click **All resources**, and then click **blob&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**.
10. On the **blob&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, under **BLOB SERVICE**, click **Containers**, and then click **+ Container**.
11. In the **New container** dialog box, in the **Name** box, type **vehiclefeed**, and then click **OK**.
12. On the **blob&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt; - Containers** blade, under **SETTINGS**, click **Access keys**.
13. Next to **key1**, click the **Click to copy** button, to copy the key to the clipboard.

#### Task 2: Upload files to the new Blob container
1.  In File Explorer, go to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Exercise2**, and note that there are multiple folders and subfolders containing vehicle registration data, which are organized by year and month.
2.  Right-click the Start button, and then click **Command Prompt (Admin)**.
3.  In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
4.  At the command prompt, type the following command (replacing **&lt;storage account name&gt;** with **blob&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**, and replacing **&lt;access key&gt;** with the key you copied to the clipboard), and then press Enter:

	```
	azcopy /Source:"E:\Labfiles\Lab04\Exercise2" /Dest:https://<storage account name>.blob.core.windows.net/vehiclefeed /DestKey:<access key> /S
	```
You copy the preceding command from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\AZCopyCmd.txt**.

#### Task 3: Verify the file upload using Cloud Explorer
1.  On the Start menu, type **Visual Studio 2017**, and then press Enter.
2.  In Visual Studio, on the **View** menu, click **Cloud Explorer**.
3.  In Cloud Explorer, if you do not have your Azure Learning Pass subscription folder, complete the following steps:
    a.  Click the **Azure** **Account settings** icon, and then click **Add an account**.
    b.  In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
    c.  In Cloud Explorer, select your Azure Learning Pass subscription, and then click **Apply**.
4.  Under your Azure Learning Pass subscription folder, expand **Storage Accounts**, expand **blob&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**, expand **Blob Containers**, and then double-click **vehiclefeed**.
5.  Verify that all the files and subfolders have been uploaded.

#### Task 4: Use AdlCopy to copy the files from Blob storage to Data Lake Store
1.  Switch to the command prompt.
2.  At the command prompt, type the following command, replacing **&lt;storage account name&gt;** with **blob&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**, replacing **&lt;name of your Data Lake Store&gt;** with **lakestore&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**, and replacing **&lt;access key&gt;** with the blob store key you copied to the clipboard), and then press Enter:

	```
	adlcopy /source https://<storage account name>.blob.core.windows.net/vehiclefeed/ /dest adl://<name of your Data Lake Store>.azuredatalakestore.net/VehicleRegistrations/ /sourcekey <access key>
	```
You copy the preceding command from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\AdlCopyCmd.txt**.

3.  If the **Sign in to your account** dialog box appears, sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
4.  Note that both the source and destination URLs must end with a **/**; AdlCopy is automatically recursive, and there is no **/S** parameter.
5.  When the copy is complete, close the command prompt.

#### Task 5: Verify the data copy using Data Explorer
1.  Switch to the Azure portal.
2.  Click **All resources**, click **lakestore&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**, and then click **Data Explorer**.
3.  On the **lakestore&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, click the **VehicleRegistrations** folder, and verify that the files that were uploaded to Blob storage have now been copied to your Data Lake Store.

>**Result**: At the end of this exercise, you will have:
-   Created a new Azure storage account and Blob container.
-   Uploaded a set of files and folders to the container using AzCopy.
-   Verified the upload using Cloud Explorer in Visual Studio.
-   Copied the data from Blob storage to Data Lake Store using AdlCopy.
-   Verified the copy using Data Explorer in the Azure portal.

### Exercise 3: Set ACLs on Data Lake Store folders and files

#### Task 1: Create a Microsoft account for a Data Lake guest user
1.  On the taskbar, right-click **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Start InPrivate Browsing**.
2.  In the InPrivate session, go to **https://signup.live.com**.
3.  Create a new account with the following information:
 -   A username, such as Course20776aLab-<_date_>-<_your name_>@outlook.com.
 -   A password.
 -   A first name and last name.
 -   Your local country/region.
 -   A date of birth.
4.  When the account has been created, click **View inbox**, and click through the default mail settings.
5.  Click **Let's go**.
6.  Minimize the InPrivate session.

#### Task 2: Add the guest user account to Azure Active Directory
1.  In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory**.
2.  On the **Azure Active Directory** blade, in the **Quick tasks** section, click **Add a guest user**.
3.  On the **Invite a guest** blade, in the **Enter email address of the external user** box, type the email address of the guest user account (Course20776aLab*-&lt;date&gt;-&lt;your name&gt;*@outlook.com), and then click **Invite**.
4.  In the browser, switch to the InPrivate session.
5.  In the mail inbox, open the **Microsoft Invitations** email, and then click **Get Started**.
6.  On the **Welcome to Default Directory** page, click **Next**.

#### Task 3: Set guest user permissions for a Data Lake Store folder
1.  Switch to the Azure portal.
2.  On the **Azure Active Directory** blade, under MANAGE, click **Properties**, and copy the **Directory ID** to the clipboard.
3.  Click **All resources**, click **lakestore&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**, and then click **Data Explorer**.
4.  On the **lakestore&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, click **VehicleOwnerData**, and then click **Access**.
5.  On the **Access** blade, click **+ Add**.
6.  On the **Assign Permissions** blade, ensure that **Select User or Group** is selected.
7.  On the **Select User or Group** blade, in the **Select** box, type the email address of your guest user account, click your guest account, and then click **Select**.
8.  On the **Assign Permissions** blade, ensure that **Select Permissions** is selected.
9.  On the **Select Permissions** blade, select the **Read** and **Execute** check boxes.
10. Click **An access permission entry and a default permission entry**, and then click **Ok**.
11. Close the **Access** blade.
12. On the **lakestore&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, click **Access**.
13. Under **Assigned Permissions**, verify that your guest account is shown.
14. Close the Access blade.

#### Task 4: Start a PowerShell session as the guest user
1.  On the Start menu, type **PowerShell**, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, and then click **Run as administrator**.
2.  In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
3.  At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command (replacing **&lt;DirectoryID&gt;** with the contents of the clipboard, and then press Enter:

	```
	Login-AzureRmAccount -TenantID <DirectoryID>
	```
Note that the PowerShell commands used in this exercise can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\PSCmds.txt**.

4.  If a data collection warning appears, type **n**.
5.  In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, enter the details of the guest user account, and then click **Sign in**.
6.  If you get a **You're already signed in** dialog box, click **Sign out and sign in with a different account**, and then type your password.

#### Task 5: Use PowerShell to attempt to list folder contents
1.  At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, replacing **&lt;name of your Data Lake Store&gt;** with **lakestore&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**, and then press Enter:

	```
	$dataLakeStoreName = "<name of your Data Lake Store>"
	```
2.  At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

	```
	Get-AzureRmDataLakeStoreChildItem -AccountName $dataLakeStoreName -Path "/VehicleOwnerData"
	```
3.  This command will return the following error: Operation returned an invalid status code 'Forbidden'.

#### Task 6: Set permissions for the root folder
1.  Switch to the Azure portal.
2.  On the **lakestore&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, in the breadcrumb trail, click **lakestore&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**, (the root folder of the account) and then click **Access**.
3.  On the **Access** blade, click **+ Add**.
4.  On the **Assign Permissions** blade, ensure that **Select User or Group** is selected.
5.  On the **Select User or Group** blade, in the **Select** box, type the email address of your guest user account, click your guest account, and then click **Select**.
6.  On the **Assign Permissions** blade, ensure that **Select Permissions** is selected.
7.  On the **Select Permissions** blade, select the **Read** and **Execute** check boxes, and then click **Ok**.
8.  Close the **Access** blade.
9.  On the **lakestore&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, click **Access**.
10. On the **Access** blade, under **Assigned Permissions**, verify that your guest account is now shown.
11. Close the Access blade.

#### Task 7: Use PowerShell to list the folder contents after a permissions change
1.  Switch to the PowerShell command prompt.
2.  At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

	```
	Get-AzureRmDataLakeStoreChildItem -AccountName $dataLakeStoreName -Path "/VehicleOwnerData"
	```
3.  This command should now successfully list the contents of the **VehicleOwnerData** folder.

#### Task 8: Use PowerShell to attempt to read a file
1.  At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

	```
	$path= "/VehicleOwnerData/VehicleOwners.csv"
	```
2.  At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

	```
	$download= "E:\Labfiles\Lab04\Exercise1\VehicleOwners-downloaded.csv"
	```
3.  At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

	```
	Export-AzureRmDataLakeStoreItem -Account $dataLakeStoreName -Path $path -Destination $download
	```
4.  This command will return an error.
5.  At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

	```
	DIR E:\Labfiles\Lab04\Exercise1\
	```
6.  Note that the **Export-AzureRmDataLakeStoreItem** cmdlet has created the **VehicleOwners-downloaded.csv** file (0 bytes), but was unable to read the file's contents. This is because the file existed before permissions were granted to your guest account and, therefore, this account does not have permission to read the contents of the file.

#### Task 9: Set permissions for a file
1.  Switch to the Azure portal.
2.  On the **Data Explorer** blade, click **VehicleOwnersData**.
3.  Next to **VehicleOwners.csv**, click the ellipses (**...**), and then click **Access**.
4.  On the **Access** blade, click **+ Add**.
5.  On the **Assign Permissions** blade, ensure that **Select User or Group** is selected.
6.  On the **Select User or Group** blade, in the **Select** box, type the email address of your guest user account, click your guest account, and then click **Select**.
7.  On the **Assign Permissions** blade, ensure that **Select Permissions** is selected.
8.  On the **Select** **Permissions** blade, select the **Read** check box, and then click **Ok**.
9.  Close the Access blade.
10. Next to **VehicleOwners.csv**, click the ellipses (**...**), and then click **Access**.
11. Under **Assigned Permissions**, verify that your guest account is shown.
12. Close the Access blade.

#### Task 10: Use PowerShell to read a file after a permissions change
1.  Switch to the PowerShell command prompt.
2.  At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

	```
	Export-AzureRmDataLakeStoreItem -Account $dataLakeStoreName -Path $path -Destination $download -Force
	```
This command should now successfully read and download the **VehicleOwners-downloaded.csv** file.

3.  At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

	```
	DIR E:\Labfiles\Lab04\Exercise1\
	```
4.  Verify that the **VehicleOwners-downloaded.csv** file has been downloaded to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Exercise1**.

#### Task 11: Use PowerShell to attempt to upload a new file
1.  At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

	```
	$upload= "/VehicleOwnerData/VehicleOwnersUpdated.csv"
	```
2.  At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

	```
	$fileName = "E:\Labfiles\Lab04\Exercise1\VehicleOwners.csv"
	```
3.  At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

	```
	Import-AzureRmDataLakeStoreItem -Account $dataLakeStoreName -Path $fileName -Destination $upload
	```
This command will return the following error: Operation returned an invalid status code 'Forbidden'.

#### Task 12: Edit folder permissions to enable file upload
1.  Switch to the Azure portal.
2.  On the **Data Explorer** blade, in the **VehicleOwnerData** folder, click **Access**.
3.  On the **Access** blade, under **Assigned Permissions**, select the **Write** check box for your guest account, and then click **Save**.
4.  Close the Access blade.
5.  Switch to the PowerShell command prompt.
6.  At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

	```
	Import-AzureRmDataLakeStoreItem -Account $dataLakeStoreName -Path $fileName -Destination $upload
	```
7.  Switch to the Azure portal.
8.  On the **Data Explorer** blade, verify that **VehicleOwnersUpdated.csv** has now been successfully uploaded.
9.  On the **Data Explorer** blade, click the ellipses (**...**) for **VehicleOwnersUpdated.csv**, and then click **Access**.
10.  Note that your guest user account has been assigned the permissions that you set in the Default Permissions Entry for the VehicleOwnerData folder in Task 3.
11.  Close the Access blade.

#### Task 13: Use PowerShell to overwrite a file
1.  Switch to the PowerShell command prompt.
2.  At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

	```
	Import-AzureRmDataLakeStoreItem -Account $dataLakeStoreName -Path $fileName -Destination $upload -Force
	```
3.  This command should successfully overwrite the **VehicleOwnersUpdated.csv** file.
4.  At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

	```
	Get-AzureRmDataLakeStoreChildItem –AccountName $dataLakeStoreName -Path "/VehicleOwnerData"
	```
5.  The **LastWriteTime** for **VehicleOwnersUpdated.csv** should have changed to the current system time (minus the few seconds you took to initiate the previous command).

#### Task 14: Use PowerShell to attempt to overwrite a file after a folder permissions change
1.  Switch to the Azure portal.
2.  On the **Data Explorer** blade for the **VehicleOwnerData** folder, click **Access**.
3.  On the **Access** blade, under **Assigned Permissions**, clear the **Write** check box for your guest account, and then click **Save**.
4.  Close the Access blade.
5.  Switch to the PowerShell command prompt.
6.  At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and press Enter:

	```
	Import-AzureRmDataLakeStoreItem -Account $dataLakeStoreName -Path $fileName -Destination $upload -Force
	```
7.  This command will return the following error: Operation returned an invalid status code 'Forbidden'.
    This is because, although your guest user account has Write permission on the file, it does not have Write permission on the folder. Write privileges on a file only enable the file to be appended; they do not enable deletion or overwrite. Without Write access to the folder, the attempted overwrite fails and the old file is left intact.
8.  Close the PowerShell prompt.

>**Result**: At the end of this exercise, you will have created a guest user account in Azure AD, and then tested the ability of this account to view folder contents, open files, and upload and update files in Data Lake Store, depending on the specific permissions that are set. You will use the Azure portal to manage the permissions, and use PowerShell as the guest user environment.

## Exercise 4: Encrypt Data Lake Store data using your own key

#### Task 1: Create a new Key Vault account and key
1.  In the Azure portal, click **+ New**, click **Security + Identity**, and then click **Key Vault**.
2.  On the **Create key vault** blade, in the **Name** box, type **VehiclesKV**.
3.  Under **Resource Group**, click **Use existing**, and then click **LakeStoreRG**.
4.  Leave all other settings at their defaults, and click **Create**.
5.  Wait until the Key Vault has deployed before continuing with the exercise.
6.  Click **All resources**, and then click **VehiclesKV**.
7.  On the **VehiclesKV** blade, under **Assets**, click **Keys**.
8.  On the **Keys** blade, click **+ Add**.
9.  On the **Create a key** blade, in the **Name** box, type **Key1**, and then click **Create**.

#### Task 2: Configure a new Data Lake storage account to use Key Vault encryption
1.  In the Azure portal, click **+ New**, click **Storage**, and then click **Data Lake Store**.
2.  On the **New Data Lake Store** blade, in the **Name** box, type **lakestore2&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**.
3.  Under **Resource Group**, click **Use existing**, and then click **LakeStoreRG**.
4.  In the **Location** list, select the location you used for the Data Lake Store in Exercise 1.
5.  Click **Encryption Settings**.
6.  On the **Encryption Settings** blade, in the **Encryption Type** list, click **Use keys from your own Key Vault**, and then click **Key Vault**.
7.  On the **Key vault** blade, click **VehiclesKV**.
8.  On the **Encryption Settings** blade, click **Encryption Key**.
9.  On the **Key Picker** blade, click **Key1**.
10. On the **Encryption Settings** blade, click **OK**.
11. On the **New Data Lake Store** blade, leave all other settings at their defaults, and click **Create**.
12. Wait until the storage has deployed before continuing with the lab.
13. Click **All resources**, and then click **lakestore2&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**.
14. On the **lakestore2&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, click the **Key Vault permission configuration needed** message.
15. On the **Encryption** blade, click **Grant Permissions**.
16. On the **lakestore2&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, under **SETTINGS**, click **Encryption**; note the details of the encryption on the Data Lake Store account.

#### Task 3: Use Data Explorer to upload a file and verify its contents
1.  On the **lakestore2&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt; - Encryption** blade, click **Overview**, and then click **Data Explorer**.
2.  Click **Upload**.
3.  On the **Upload files** blade, click the file button.
4.  In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, go to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Exercise4**, click **testdata1.json**, and then click **Open**.
5.  On the **Upload files** blade, click **Add selected files**.
6.  After the file has uploaded, close the **Upload files** blade.
7.  On the **Data Explorer** blade for your Data Lake Store, click **testdata1.json**. If the file is not shown, click **Refresh**.
8.  Note that the file contains some data about fictitious criminal offenses.
9.  Close the **File Preview** blade.

#### Task 4: Back up the Key Vault key, and then delete the key
1.  Click **All resources**, and then click **VehiclesKV**.
2.  On the **Overview** blade, under **Assets**, click **Keys**.
3.  On the **Keys** blade, click **Key1**.
4.  On the **Key1** blade, click **Download Backup**, and then click **Download**.
5.  In the Internet Explorer message bar, click the **Save** drop-down arrow, and then click **Save as**.
6.  In the **Save As** dialog box, go to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Exercise4**, and then click **Save**.
7.  Close the Internet Explorer message bar.
8.  In the **Key1** blade, click **Delete**, and then click **Yes**.
9.  Close the **Keys** blade.
10. Wait 2-3 minutes before continuing with the exercise.

#### Task 5: Attempt to access encrypted data without a key
1.  Click **All resources**, and then click **lakestore2&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**.
2.  On the **lakestore2&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, click **Data Explorer**.
3.  On the **Data Explorer** blade, click **testdata1.json**.
4.  Note the **RuntimeException** and **Azure Key Vault key not found** message.
5.  Close the **File Preview** blade.

#### Task 6: Attempt to upload data to encrypted storage without a key
1.  On the **Data Explorer** blade, click **Upload**.
2.  On the **Upload files** blade, click the file button.
3.  In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, go to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Exercise4**, click **testdata2.csv**, and then click **Open**.
4.  On the **Upload files** blade, click **Add selected files**.
5.  Note the Upload Error message.
6.  Close the Upload files blade.
7.  On the **Data Explorer** blade, click **Refresh**, and note that the failed upload has created a 0 byte file.
8.  Close the **Data Explorer** blade.

#### Task 7: Restore a deleted key and verify data access
1.  Click **All resources**, and then click **VehiclesKV**.
2.  On the **VehiclesKV** blade, under **Assets**, click **Keys**.
3.  On the **Keys** blade, click **Restore Backup**.
4.  In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, go to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Exercise4**, click your backup, and then click **Open**.
5.  Click **All resources**, click **lakestore2&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;**, and then click **Data Explorer**.
6.  On the **Data Explorer** blade, click **testdata1.json**.
7.  Verify that you can now open the file.
8.  Close the **File Preview** blade.
9.  On the **Data Explorer** blade, click **Upload**.
10. On the **Upload files** blade, click the file button.
11. In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, go to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Exercise4**, click **testdata2.csv**, and then click **Open**.
12. Select the **Allow overwrite existing files** check box, and then click **Add selected files**.
13. Note that you can now upload files.
14. After the file has uploaded, close the **Upload files** blade.
15. On the **lakestore2&lt;_your name_&gt;&lt;_date_&gt;** blade, click **testdata2.csv**.
16. Note that the file contains some data about vehicle registrations.
17. Close the **File Preview** blade.
18. Close the **Data Explorer** blade.

#### Task 8: Lab closedown
1.  In the Azure portal, click **Resource groups**, and then click **LakeStoreRG**.
2.  On the **LakeStoreRG** blade, click **Delete** **resource group**.
3.  On the **Are you sure you want to delete “LakeStoreRG”?** blade, in the box, type **LakeStoreRG**, and then click **Delete**.

>**Result**: At the end of this exercise, you will have created a new Key Vault and key, used this key to encrypt a new Data Lake Store, uploaded data to the store, created a key backup and then deleted the key. You will also have attempted to access and upload data after key deletion, and restored the deleted key and verified data access.

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
